---
---

# Designing Data-Intensive Applications

Part of my series of [[notes on papers]].
This is a book, however, so I will only consider the part that is available online, part 1. Will consider obtaining the rest at the end.

Tags: [[diseño y arquitectura de software]]
[Link to article]([https://link](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/designing-data-intensive-applications/9781491903063/ch01.html)

- [Designing Data-Intensive Applications](#designing-data-intensive-applications)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
    - [Thinking about Data Systems](#thinking-about-data-systems)

## Introduction

> The Internet was done so well that most people think of it as a natural resource like the Pacific Ocean, rather than something that was man-made. When was the last time a technology with a scale like that was so error-free?

Alan Kay, in interview with Dr Dobb’s Journal (2012)

Basic building blocks:

- Databases
  - Store data to find it later
- Caches
  - Remember the result of an expensive operation.
- Indexes
  - Allow users to search by keyword or filter
- Stream Processing
  - Send message to other process to be handled asynchronously.
- Batch Processing
  - Periodically crunch large amount of accumulated Data

Useful abstractions for design, different trade-offs depending on implementation.

### Thinking about Data Systems

Why lump all abstractions like message queues and DBs in same category? Distinctions have become blurred.

You can make complex/composite data systems from smaller components.

- How do you ensure data remains correct and complete, even with internal errors?
- How do you provide consistently good performance, even when parts degrade?
- How do you scale?
- What's a good API?

Main ideas behind Data-intensive Applications:

- Reliability
  - System should work correctly in face of adversity.
  - Tolerate user mistakes or unexpected use.
  - Prevents unauthorized access and abuse.
  - "continuing to work correctly even when things go wrong"
  - Fault is not failure
    - Fault:
      - One component deviating from spec.
    - Failure:
      - Whole system stops providing required service.
  - It's possible to increase faults to reduce failure
    -  [Netflix Chaos Monkey](https://netflixtechblog.com/the-netflix-simian-army-16e57fbab116)
- Scalability
  - Should easily grow.
- Maintainability
  - Many people should be able to work productively.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[notes on papers]: notes-on-papers "Notes on Papers"
[diseño y arquitectura de software]: School/7th-semester-folder/diseño-y-arquitectura-de-software "Diseño Y Arquitectura De Software"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"