# Artificial Intelligence

Artificial intelligence generally refers to intelligence that is not biological in nature.

One of the principal problems that I think we have is measuring intelligence, and I believe that that is due mainly to a lack of understanding/ a definition of intelligence. This has to do heavily with the field of [[epistemology]].

## Context

I don't know specifically when I became interested in artificial intelligence. But it was definitely more than a couple of years ago. A definite turning point, though almost certainly not the start, was the [Wait but Why AI artilcle.](https://waitbutwhy.com/2015/01/artificial-intelligence-revolution-1.html) The view that it presents on superintelligence definitely changed the way that I view the future of humanity/AI (closely correlated).


## Problems in AI

How do we solve the control problem? Can we?

How do we measure the "intelligence level" of an agent/system? I review an interesting paper on the topic, [[on-the-measure-of-intelligence]]. This is a good starting point on this problem. It's hard to improve if you can't measure what you're trying to improve.

## Future

Currently, my plans for a short-term futer with regards to machine learning are to finish the [[coursera]] specialization on [[deep-learning]]. Later, I plan to work in the field, and probably get a masters on the topic.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[epistemology]: epistemology "Epistemology"
[on-the-measure-of-intelligence]: on-the-measure-of-intelligence "On the Measure of Intelligence"
[coursera]: coursera "Coursera"
[deep-learning]: deep-learning "Deep Learning"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"