# On Poverty

tags: [[personal-philosophy]]

## What is Poverty

This might be a contentious topic, even the definition, but I think that it's important to lay out.

I Think that a good definition for poverty is:
>The state of being poor; lack of the means of providing material needs or comforts.

or,

>the state of one who lacks a usual or socially acceptable amount of money or material possessions

The latter is from Webster, and I don't agree with it in general terms, but it is a good starting point.

It's good because it demonstrates the *relative* aspect of poverty, and how the impact it has can change dependent on external social factors. Being poor in Africa is not the same as poor or even completely broke in most European nations, along many dimensions.

I would like to propose a new definition, from which it is possible to work to a greater understanding, and is in no way final:
>Poverty (n.) : The state of someone who lacks the resources required to ensure that their needs are and will be met. That lacks the resources to ensure the same for their family or dependents.

I propose this definition for a couple reasons:

1. It is important to note that I don't believe that poverty is an absolute affair. There are degrees to poverty, which is why the concept of a 'poverty line' is slightly problematic.
2. Given that it is a continuum, a spectrum, it is important to note that a vast majority of people are poor to a degree.
3. The range and distribution (bias) of the continuum is unethical. There shouldn't be people with such blatant excess in the face of such incredible poverty.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[personal-philosophy]: personal-philosophy "Personal Philosophy"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
